Umpire Wellbeing and Support Manager 241220-01

Newly developed position helping umpires thrive Create a framework of holistic wellbeing services Engage with members to access services (not a counselling role) 2 year part time contract - 28 hrs per week flexible Hybrid role based in Docklands, VIC The AFL Umpires Association (AFLUA) is the body that represents the collective interests of AFL Umpires. Responsible for negotiating the employment terms and conditions for Umpires, the AFLUA plays an important role in promoting a collegial and team environment for Umpires. In recognition of the demands and challenges AFL umpires face, the AFLUA is seeking to provide more proactive, consistent and individualised personal assistance to its membership, with a particular focus on the wellbeing. Reporting to the Chief Executive Officer, the Umpire Wellbeing and Support Manager will be focussed on helping umpires thrive by supporting their wellbeing. The purpose of this role is to proactively support the wellbeing of AFLUA full members (AFL and AFLW Umpires). A key outcome is to create a framework of holistic wellbeing services that are accessible to AFLUA members. While the AFL offers umpires access to an Employee Assistance Program, this role will provide a more personalised and proactive support mechanism. This is not a counselling role, but it will require supportive conversations with members and the ability to encourage members to access appropriate wellbeing services. Some of the key objectives of this role will include: Increasing the AFLUA’s contact with members and better monitor the umpiring groups wellbeing. Sourcing professional development programs for Umpires (e.g. Leadership Coaching, Conflict Management) Developing referral networks in the fields of Mental Health; and Career Counselling / Guidance To be successful in this role you will hold relevant qualifications with demonstrated experience in developing, planning and delivering individualised strategies and activities to address identified wellbeing, career, personal and professional development needs. These experiences will ideally be from within a high-performance sport environment, supporting athletes, officials and/or members through life transitions in a way that is accessible around their sporting commitments. Highly supportive in nature, you will be a skilled communicator and influencer, with the capability to listen, build consensus, and effectively manage sensitive conversations. You will be a resilient self-starter who is willing to take the initiative and work independently as well as collaboratively, managing competing priorities in a flexible way to meet the needs of members. Whilst there is some flexibility around working hours (approximately 28 hours per week on average), it is important to be contactable at agreed times with a commitment to return member’s calls outside those hours within 24 hours. A background in AFL or umpiring is not required for this role, instead the ability to engage with members and technical staff to ensure the framework’s success will be key.The role will collaborate closely with AFLUA staff to ensure effective communication and engagement with the members who are located across Australia.